## cshell
This program is a shell, similar to bash, which will run command line instructions and return results similar to other shells. It will use the ":" symbol as a prompt for each command line. This shell will allow for the redirection of standard input and standard output as well as support both foreground and background processes (controllable by the command line and by receiving signals). This shell supports three built in commands: exit, cd and status. The general syntax for this shell command line is:\
    command [arg1 arg2 ...] [< input_file] [> output_file] [&]\
...where items in square brackets are optional. The special symbols "<", ">" and "&" are recognized, but must be surrounded by spaces like other words. If the command is to be executed in the background, the last word must be "&" . If the "&" character appears anywhere else, it is treated as normal text. In order for standard input or output to be redirected, the ">" or "<" characters followed by a filename must appear after all the arguments. Input redirection can appear before or after output redirection. Please note, this shell does not support any quoting, so arguments with spaces inside of them are not possible.  This shell supports command lines with a maximum length of 2048 characters, and a maximum of 512 arguments. It also supports blank lines and comments, which are lines beginning with the "#" character. The shell will re-prompt the user for another command when it receives either a blank line or a comment line:
- A CTRL-C command from the keyboard will send a SIGINT signal to the parent shell process and all children at the same time (this is a built-in part of Linux). The SIGINT does not terminate the shell, but only terminates the foreground command, if one is running. If a child foreground process is killed by a signal, the parent immediately print out the number of the signal that killed its foreground child process (see the example) before prompting the user for the next command. Background processes are not be terminated by a SIGINT signal. They terminate themselves, continue running, or are terminated when the shell exits.
- A CTRL-Z command from the keyboard will send a SIGTSTP signal to the parent shell process and all children at the same time (this is a built-in part of Linux). When this signal is received by the shell, an informative message is displayed immediately if it's sitting at the prompt, or immediately after any currently running foreground process has terminated. It then enters a state where subsequent commands can no longer be run in the background. In this state, the & operator will be ignored, which means that all such commands are run as if they were foreground processes. If the user sends SIGTSTP again, another informative message is displayed immediately after any currently running foreground process terminates. The program will then return back to the normal condition where the & operator is once again honored for subsequent commands, allowing them to be placed in the background. The foreground and background child processes will ignore a SIGTSTP signal as the shell will react to it
- The exit command exits the shell. It takes no arguments.  When this command is run, the shell kills any other processes or jobs that the shell has started before it terminates itself
- The cd command changes the working directory of the shell. By itself - with no arguments - it changes to the directory specified in the HOME environment variable (not to the location where cshell was executed from, unless the shell executable is located in the HOME directory, in which case these are the same). This command can also take one argument: the path of a directory to change to. The cd command supports both absolute and relative paths. When cshell terminates, the original shell it was launched from will still be in its original working directory, despite your use of chdir() in cshell. The shell's working directory begins in whatever directory the shell's executible was launched from
- The status command prints out either the exit status or the terminating signal of the last foreground process, but not both, ran by the shell. If this command is run before any foreground command is run, then it will return the exit status 0
- The three built-in shell commands listed above do not count as foreground processes for the purposes of this built-in command, which means that status ignores built-in commands

### Deployment
After cloning the repository, please follow the steps below to run the cshell.c program:
1) Log into flip1 and run the following 2 commands in the directory containing the program file:\
    gcc -o cshell cshell.c\
    cshell

###Example
Here is an example run using cshell. Please note that CTRL-C has no effect towards the bottom of the example, when it's used while sitting at the command prompt:

[](example-output.png)

### Notes
- The cshell.c program was tested on my university's UNIX servers called os1
